>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go ahead and
review the solutions.
So, here I am in the advanced
git exercises branch.
And I am going to check out exercise 3.
The first thing I want to do is,
figure out where my head variable is.
Let's check it out by finding
out the value of git slash head.
And we can verify this
by running git branch.
Now let's figure out what our
references are pointing to.
We can do that with the plumbing command,
git show-ref.
And we pass in the --heads
[INAUDIBLE] Cool.
So I have a few more
exercises than you guys.
If I filter this out to just exercise 3,
we'll see that that is the Last
commit in this branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And if we wanted to,
we could use git cat
file-p to verify this.
So let's say I wanted to look at
the reference for my master branch.
It's this one right here.
So I can copy this reference, and
then do a git cat-file -p.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
that'll show us the last master commit.
Mine might be a little
bit different than yours.
Cuz I've been working on these exercises.
But yours should be the initial commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
our exercise 3 branch is pointing
to a newer commit from exercise2
We can verify that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: By taking a look
at this commit using git cat-file -p.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
this is the commit from exercise two.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now
let's make a tag and we want to confirm
that it points to the correct commit.
We can name this tag whatever we want.
Now, I can do git tag to
show which tags I have.
That should show my /git/commit and
let's make sure that the tag is
pointing to the right place.
If I use the plumbing
command git show-ref,
I can pass in the --tags flag instead
of --heads like we did earlier.
That'll show that my git tag is
pointing to the current commit
on the exercise3 branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We can
also verify that, to look that up.
>> Nina Zakharenko: With
git tag dash dash points-at.
And checking out this commit, cool.
Those are all the tags that point
at this commit right there.
Now let's get a shot at
trying out annotated tags.
Remember that annotated tags serve
the same function as a regular tag.
But they contain some extra metadata,
right?
The author, the date,
and an optional message.
So, to create an annotated
tag we use the- a flag.
And I'll say my-annotated-tag and
I'm gonna pass in a message.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I messed up my quotes.
Let me try that one more time.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great,
now when I list my tags with git-tag,
we'll see that I have a new one.
I can take to look at it with git show.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And that shows
the commit that it's pointing to.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now let's check out
detached head.
Now that you know what it really means,
hopefully the terminology isn't so
scary anymore.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Someone should
go as a detached get detached head for
a Halloween custom this Halloween.
October 31st is coming up.
[LAUGH] I think you guys
could scare some programmers.
[LAUGH]
So
let's use git checkout to checkout to
figure out the latest commit directly.
And we can figure out what
that is by looking at the log.
And I use the dash dash, no pager here
just so that prints out in my terminal
instead of opening on the screen.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Cool.
So this here is my latest commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I
am going to check it out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: No
detached head state.
Look around make changes.
I don't know who wrote this message but
it's really not [LAUGH]
helpful.
Great so if we take a look at our
head now we'll see that it
is pointing at that commit.
Now if we create a dangling commit
>> Nina Zakharenko: And we add it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that's in our staging area.
If we do a status, git will tell us
that we're in a detached head state.
And let's commit it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great, now if we,
look at out log
>> Nina Zakharenko: We will see our latest
commit, an example of a dangling commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
if we check our HEAD again,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Can
anyone tell me what HEAD
will be pointing at now?
Which commit?
The first one?
The second one?
>> Nina Zakharenko: I pick you.
>> Speaker 2: E348EBC?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Not quite.
>> Speaker 2: I don't know that
at all then.
[LAUGH]
>> Nina Zakharenko: What's the latest
commit we made?
>> Speaker 3: The dangling ten.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes, so
now if we look at head, it's gonna be
pointing at the last commit we made,
the dangling git commit, great.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if we wanted to keep this commit,
we could check out a branch.
But right now,
we're just gonna throw it out.
So if we git checkout exercise 3, and
I will show you the log one more time.
So we made this commit while
we were on a detached head.
I I check out exercise three.
It is going to give me a warning telling
me that I am leaving one commit behind.
It's not connected to any of my branches.
It doesn't have any references.
And if I don't do anything about this
eventually this commit is going to be
garbage collected.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And it also gives
you a helpful tip that if you want to
keep it you can create a new branch.
You can say git branch branch name,
and keep that
commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Anyone
have questions about references?
Heads, detached heads, how are you
feeling?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Seeing
a lot of lost faces.